foreign
s welcome to the second installment of
the cro confidential series uh we have
an incredible guest today my name is Sam
blonde I am a huge disaster fan and
leading the cro confidential series I
most recently joined Founders fund as a
partner and I was cro at Rex for the
last five years prior to joining
Founders fund today's guest as I
mentioned is somebody that's incredible
I would describe my relationship with
him as a bit of a love-hate relationship
more on that in just a bit Sterling snow
the cro uh at Divi Sterling has led the
revenue Organization for five years now
last year two and a half billion dollar
acquisition by bill.com pretty
incredible five-year run
um Sterling welcome to the Pod ecstatic
to catch up with you today thanks Sam
yep stoked to chat Stoke to just deepen
the the love hate relation ship we got
going on here perfect well for viewers a
bit of context uh brex where I was most
recently cro and Divi where uh Sterling
is currently cro we're bitter
competitors from uh the time that I
joined at least which was mid-2018 at
least through sort of like early 2020 we
were the primary two players in the
corporate card spend management Neo Bank
space
um and so in many deals we went up
against each other head to head I always
had a ton of respect for you Sterling
but also
um sort of like a bit of hatred as I
mentioned uh previously just because of
how competitive the two of our
businesses were but man uh you were
great and this is going to be fun today
yeah I mean brex like an incredible
business I've thought about it a lot too
like would would Divi has been as good
as we were if it weren't for like an
amazing competitor and I've thought
about that on a personal level two there
were a lot of nights where I was laying
awake being like I wonder what Sam
blonde is thinking about or trying to do
right now and just you know trying to
trying to figure out how to grow and get
better so that's a mutual feeling for
sure very cool well now
um that that the the companies are like
less competitive today it seems um and
we won't necessarily go deep as to why
that is today
um and also I'm no longer a Braxton
we're developing a relationship and this
is so fun to do after our uh history of
being competitors so let's go let's
start deep I'm going a little bit deep
on competition so as I referenced
um Rex and Divi hyper competitive for
you know at least a couple years
reflecting on that time and maybe some
um takeaways for folks that are
listening today that are in a
competitive space What are some of the
things that you think you did really
well um and what are some of the the
sort of like things that you did less
well or mistakes you made from
competitive standpoint yeah I love the
question and I've spent a lot of time
thinking about it over over the years
potentially or particularly since we got
acquired so I'll start with the things I
think we didn't do super well the real
learnings for me the first one is I
didn't know enough of the Nuance about
the space we were in so you know we were
in in fintech and I had come from just
more more traditional SAS and so there
were just mistakes around bins and
processors and economics and there were
there were things I didn't know that 100
inhibited our ability to like compete
and and to do it do it well and I I
didn't even know about them so I think
the first learning is when you aren't
the expert become the expert or make
sure you've got one in the room or on
the team otherwise you are bound to make
costly mistakes I I tell people this all
the time saying like I have a billion
dollar education because of like very
fundamental mistakes as it relates to
fintech but that I think translates to
together to other Industries the other
one is be very careful of two things
thinking that your competitors are too
smart or thinking that they're too dumb
because I've made both of those mistakes
Sam I've said some of the stupidest
things in the world about brex so like
go back to like 2018 this is again when
I don't understand anything about
fintech I said things like I bet brex is
losing money on every swipe I bet their
unit economic negative I bet this is you
know the land grab to a larger thing and
I you know dead wrong right like
absolutely stupid stuff to say and to
think and then I've had the other
mistake too where you start looking at
somebody you start creating kind of this
Frankenstein in your brain and thinking
well everything single thing that they
do well we should do that because
they're amazing and they're crushing it
and so between those things those are
some of the harder harder learnings for
for me and mistakes that I've made and
then on the those are great but just
just to interject real quickly
um one of the things that I I think back
on though that you all did very well
which is a bit of a Counterpoint to what
you just described I remember we had a
billboard campaign that was something
like you know thank you for growing with
us or something like that and we put a
couple folks on it and um it sort of
like died off or whatever and you all
um you you really made that a part of
your brand especially for utah-based
companies and did it better than we did
um and so I don't know if you got the
idea from us or what but that is a
Counterpoint to where like you sort of
took something that we maybe
um uh did and it worked a little bit and
you did it better than we did uh and so
that's an interesting maybe Counterpoint
on that one I mean you're you're dead
right it's not like all the ideas are
bad and if you can not reinvent the
wheel and improve on it absolutely we
love that billboard by the way it's just
an opportunity for us to like align
ourselves with our customers and with
the communities that that we're involved
in and just kind of shouting people out
but it's been a good one for us so yeah
I I agree with you so here I'm curious
yeah go ahead let's talk about some of
the things you did well yeah I
I think that really early on brex did an
excellent job dominating the the startup
VC backed sort of market and I think we
had a choice to make at that point like
can we go try to to compete or do we
kind of pick pick a different Market all
together I remember thinking a lot about
doordash and Uber and who dominates the
cities and who dominates the suburbs and
I think one of the things we did well is
we understood that we were going to be
able to be more valuable and more
successful if we if we kind of went a
different direction if we went after
more of of the mainstream type
businesses and and so you know I
remember when we lost like a Carta deal
to you guys and those were pivotal
moments of like okay we can either stay
here and try to compete or we can try a
very different strategy and so I think
our moves around appealing to building
four and in our go to market motion
around Main Street Amer America that was
one of the things that I'm proud of that
I think we did well
it's super interesting both of the
things that you mentioned uh relate to
some of the things that I was thinking
about I'm just reflecting on on what we
were going to be discussing today
um and something that Rex I think did
well which is exactly what you just
described is around messaging and being
very deliberate about the segment that
we were launching into so so brex
launched as the first corporate card for
startups
um and what that did was it it sort of
branded us as the right fit if you're a
startup this is where you come
um if folks are familiar with innovators
dilemma or Innovative solution we picked
like a small segment of the corporate
card market and we attacked it
um and I think that um provided
meaningful dividends for us just in
terms of acquiring market share and what
I'm hearing from you Sterling is you all
did that with more like mainstream
America different category as well
um and by being deliberate about a
specific type of customer that you are
acquiring and going after that segment
very hard hard it was the right decision
for you all yeah we kind of what you all
did for for startups and and Venture
back folks we tried to do for the super
unsexy folks so internally externally we
talked about HVAC companies we talked
about plumbers we talked about all of
the different things that we felt like
we could champion and bring a spotlight
to those folks bringing better
technology it's exactly what you all did
dominating that that startup market and
we tried to bring that to you know
Middle America I love it um at the early
stage pick a segment where you have
seemingly strong product Market fit
attack that segment acquire meaningful
market share and expand from there
absolutely you know and one of the other
things I think that we did well is I
remember so we were in Utah y'all were
in San Francisco and uh I paid a couple
of cars because you guys were the the
only corporate card for startups right
the first corporate card for startups
and I remember we paid and we paid some
cars wrapped them and like you know the
Divi branding and said you know
corporate card for everybody and we had
them sit outside your office so you know
those are just the fun things that
looking back over five years we got to
we got to go through together it's been
a lot of fun and then you guys did the
same thing in Utah and absolutely
demolished us and you know less good
good lesson to learn but well
um two and a half billion dollar outcome
in in five years a lot went right
um and on on the you know you mentioned
you mentioned uh on some of the mistakes
one of them resonated with me
um and it was one of the things that we
did
that uh I have mixed feelings about in a
lot of deals where we competed with you
it was a bit of a race to the bottom on
rebate and and for folks that are in SAS
the equivalent would be sort of like
discounting to the lowest price point to
be able to win the deal
um and you know I I have mixed feelings
reflecting on that that said
um I I think one major takeaway in a
competitive environment is I would
rather be the higher priced product
um and a lot of sales is psychology I
would prefer to be perceived as the
premium product in the space and
discount where necessary but hopefully
not need to Discount to the point of the
competition
um and so that's one thing reflecting on
on mistakes that we made we had a lot of
sort of low margin deals uh where we
were hyper competitive because we
negotiated on price so deeply
um something that I'm a bit conflicted
about but uh uh those there were a lot
of deals where the margins weren't great
yeah couldn't couldn't agree more the
other thing is fascinating meeting about
us is we've got rebate which is our
equivalent of pricing but then we have
other things that affect those margins
like we've got risk we've got Top Line
interchange we've and so it's kind of
this ever-evolving math problem that
you're trying to figure out and I agree
with you if you could do it all over
again you'd stake your claim on
something that has little to do with
those particular areas because it's hard
not to race to the bottom if your value
is built on on either one of those like
underlying economic factors that's
that's an excellent learning
um position your value around uh uh
something that isn't price related
rebate related for the card space
something more like uh value that the
technology itself provides let's stay
with competition because I think it's
it's applicable to most uh uh
environments most companies today
there's some form of competition when
you win against brex and maybe in the
abstract just how you think about
approaching competition did you do you
stick to your strengths and not mention
the competition do you say negative
things about your competitors what was
your approach here and and maybe advice
yeah for other folks yeah so it's
interesting because I've seen people who
operate on Far ends of those spectrums
like there are some people where
internally and externally it's like
forbidden for you to mention the name of
a competitor right like and that's the
whole like Hey we're running our own
race and if we look to the side we're
going to get distracted and then you've
got the other end of the spectrum where
you get competitor obsessed it's like
every tweet that some brand makes it
like upends your whole day
and and I think I started out a lot more
like that and and was was just
absolutely fixated on on our competition
now I think the learning is it's it is
somewhere in the middle I don't think
the right move is ever to trash your
competition I just don't think that
there's any value in it humans pick up
on that stuff so fast the the thing that
you can do is point out differences in
in the way to be effective at that is to
ask the right questions figure out what
differences matter and then simply Point
them out say hey brex is an amazing
product here's where I think we're
here's where I think our differences
might help you out a little bit more and
that that tone tends to resonate I think
it matters internally too because you
can't be afraid but you also can't be
ignorant and so being respectful of
people and trying to understand what
there is to learn and what they're doing
I think there's value in that but either
end of those extremes I think tend to to
yield poor outcomes
it's it's so funny how similarly we
think about a lot of these things and
you and I have never discussed them
um and when it comes to competition uh
there are I think creative ways that you
can describe differences between you and
your competition such that you increase
the probability of winning the deal but
are not perceived as uh bashing the
competition which would decrease your
probability of winning the deal and and
uh uh be off-putting to the buyer
um one thing that that has worked and
that we did both the brexit and zenovitz
and elsewhere
um during Discovery
um you ask are you evaluating any other
Solutions or just looking at us today
and um they'll almost always tell you uh
and if you don't ask that question
you're flying a little bit blind and not
doing appropriate Discovery and if they
tell you yeah we're looking at we're
looking at um Divi as well my next
question is generally makes a lot of
sense I'd love to learn what you're
solving for and then throughout the
product demo we can go one of two ways
I'm happy to just sort of stick to what
brex does well alternatively I can
highlight some differences between our
product and Divi is just knowing that
you're looking at the two of them and
nine times out of ten actually like 99
times out of a hundred uh the response
is something like oh you know that would
be helpful if you highlight some
differences
um and then you're sort of like asked to
uh uh point out some differences and and
you do so and if you're perceived as
truly because who nobody knows more
about brex that doesn't work at Rex than
like me right and vice versa and if I
can actually be an expert that's where
I'm adding value to to the person who's
trying to figure out the best thing for
their business so I I totally agree with
you if they can if they basically ask
like hey Sam what's your expertise and
you you highlight differences and way
that's not off-putting you're in a great
spot to control how how that buying
decision goes down you're you're almost
riding the RFP now like you know that's
more of an Enterprise type thing and and
of course you want to try to write the
RFP when you're um when there actually
is an RFP but in a sort of micro version
in a transactional sale
um you're effectively defining what uh
is important to the person alongside
them it's an interesting point whether
it's an RFP which is farther up Market
than we typically played but everyone's
got something in their head and if you
can start to be that that voice of like
what are you buying for what problems
are you solving okay well I'm gonna help
you then you're you're in a good spot
awesome last last thing on competition
uh and then we'll move on to
um other exciting topics is there um a
specific value prop or message that
really resonated with customers when
contrasting to other players in the
space yeah the thing that we
came out with a little bit before and in
a little bit different way than than
other folks was around like our ability
to create budgets and to have have spend
management that was by departmental
budgets that sort of map to your GL and
so people people spend money in in very
interesting ways across all different
kinds of businesses but really the the
place where we felt like we were the
most unique was around how how our
budget functionality allowed people to
run finances that was the one that
really helped us
and and so you were selling um I think
find a value prop that really resonates
with your buyer and helps them do their
job more effectively something like that
is maybe the the takeaway yeah exactly
the the thing for me and this has been
universally true I've spent most of my
career three companies Echo sign which
is electronic signatures benefits and uh
uh most recently brex the the thing that
has universally uh resonated with folks
is is around Simplicity
um in in like ease of use ease of
adoption ease of rollout and positioning
ourselves as the the sort of like
simplest player in the space and you
just talked about budgets it's
interesting because uh uh and not to go
too deep on this specific use case but
Divi uh had a sophisticated budgeting
tool
um it was there was a feature that Rex
did not have
um and we actually positioned that as a
negative
um we said you're you're a you know 50
person company you don't want to have a
lot of sophistication around rules
around where cards can be used in dollar
amount pounds that can be swiped on
cards you just want this to work and by
uh getting like introducing more
complexity into the rollout of your
corporate card program uh you are going
to make things more complicated time
consuming frustrating etc etc and for us
that that seems to resonate and almost
turned
um a potential negative and that we were
doing like a feature bake off we didn't
have it into a positive around
Simplicity
um
I think that there's a so much wisdom in
doing that where like maybe your initial
reaction is to be like well you know we
don't have budgets but let me show you
something over here it's like actually
let's talk about why you don't actually
want that I think it's brilliant we've
done you know we've done similar things
when you talk about talk about Folks at
market and for for us as businesses you
just get to choose which flags you want
to put in the ground because someone's
going to turn that into negative you're
going to try and turn that into a
positive so you have to be right that's
what you're betting on is what does the
market actually want what's going to win
most of the time because somebody out
there is going to make your cool thing
look like look like a headache because I
and I think that's very smart
uh the other the other thing that comes
to mind with messaging and we'll switch
gears a little bit on this um thought in
the changing environment uh one thing
that I've been talking to sales leaders
about is Shifting messaging from what
resonated uh value prop messaging
whatever it is from what resonated at
the end of last year the things that
matter today are probably different than
the things that matter 12 months ago and
if you can position your product is
something that will ultimately save a
company money
um especially if you're hearing from the
the company or the the
um the buyer at that company that is a
priority
um you are going to position yourselves
better today than you probably did when
um money was effectively free yeah uh
brex and Divi we we were competing in
the the free money uh crazy fundraising
environment inflated in valuation
timeline of like 2018 to 2021. today is
um a different world uh and so let's
assume you may be we have some money in
the bank as many startups do because
we've come out of this incredibly
attractive fundraising environment
um what today are you doing differently
if anything given the macro changes that
we're experiencing
yeah I think a lot about Bill Gurley the
famous quote like the game on the field
right and the game on the field is is
just so different today than it was a
couple years ago
in the some of the things that we've
talked about
from our learnings I think I think
translate really well you you want to
position yourself as much more than than
something that can be raced to the
bottom and you want to actually like
hold that line much earlier because
that's a drug that's hard to get off so
we're we're talking about cross and
marketing and sales teams and when that
becomes your muscle of like hey we get
into this competitive situation we
discount discount discount
you go try and take that away when the
game on the field changes I mean it's
brutal it's absolutely brutal and so I I
think a lot about about that I think too
about the my thinking around
efficiencies has changed a lot in a lot
of ways we were going so fast and had
such aggressive targets there was really
only one fast way to do anything and
that was hire more people and what that
did in a lot of ways is it left us less
efficient than we want to be when the
game on the field changes and it changed
it changed super fast and I'm sitting
here like why do we have people doing
that thing that we should have like
built an automated
and I look I look out and I'm honestly
like I'm a little embarrassed like we we
kind of took some of those shortcuts
because it was faster but it wasn't the
right thing long term and so those are
the those are the biggest ones that jump
out to me right off the bat it's it's so
smart and uh resonates with me a lot as
well I think when when thinking about uh
growth and how to grow faster one one of
the things that I think immediately
comes to most people's mind is investing
more in sales and sales people one thing
that I've learned over time is more
sales people do not equal more revenue
or more sales uh in your comment around
efficiency the thing that comes to mind
for me sort of tactically is investing
in this like concept of a strategy and
operations go to market strategy and
operations we we had one head count that
was dedicated towards
um effectively like um account and a
lead scoring and surfacing the accounts
that are going to generate the most
revenue and also the contacts within the
accounts that are most likely to convert
which messaging to use based on the
Persona of that contact
UM and we hired this person and in
coordination with a few other things we
increased our average deal size by
something like a 3X
um and increase conversion rates as well
and so it's interesting just thinking
about creative ways to gain efficiency
and oftentimes it falls into this bucket
of strategy and operations that has just
been a huge asset of of mine and and I
can attribute a lot of My Success to
this function
investing there might be interesting to
improve efficiency as you just described
in this world where sales efficiency
matters uh quota attainment how much
your reps are contributing it matters
today a lot more than it did 12 months
ago
um and so uh sort of tactically that's
what comes to mind making your comments
yeah I I totally agree and we had sort
of an initial shock to the system when
covet happened right and for our
business we immediately you know Revenue
drops 30 overnight and so we get we got
thrust into that efficiency mindset for
just a second during covet and then it
obviously went crazy again but during
those moments we had an initiative that
reduced our attack by like 75 and it was
around reducing friction with how people
onboarded with us the the underwriting
kind of the self-serve component of that
and you know if if you can have the
discipline to focus on those High
leverage kinds of things even win the
game on the field is is ultra aggressive
hyper growth I think those are the
companies that that really really do
special things
and and let's end uh sticking with this
sort of new new world how we approach it
uh is there do you have a favorite
initiative or or a couple initiatives
that you were do that you did uh at Divi
that were low cost um but drove sort of
a big impact that might give uh viewers
a few ideas yeah so going back to like
the the beginning and I joined Divi
before we raised any money at all so we
were like we were freaking Scrappy early
on I I remember two that come to mind
one we had a local Tech conference
silicon slopes and you know there's 15
000 people that go there but we couldn't
afford a booth or anything like that so
we uh we came up with this idea called
the cash back Cowboy we put a one of our
sdrs and a purple suit with a purple
cowboy hat and we just taped we taped
like 300 worth of two dollar bills on to
him and just had him walk around and say
like you need to look at Divi you need
to look at divvy you need to look divvy
and uh it you know it actually generated
like a ton of our early business and
some of our earliest like Angel
Investors that the CEO of Domo at the
time like called us because that just
stuff like that and then and then the
second one is I remember just thinking
okay I need to get us in front of a lot
of people with an aggressive offer for
very low like low ad spend basically and
I just remember thinking where do where
does our buyer hang out and uh at the
time business newsletters were kind of
just starting out and I remember we
called one called owler they would send
out a business update or alerts around
like who you wanted to follow they sent
it out to millions of people at the time
and I remember calling them and being
like hey you guys don't have any
sponsors on this thing can I write like
a piece of content I'll give you a
thousand bucks and if this thing works
you know we'll help you kind of build
your your ad program and I remember that
day like it was it was a very pivotal
moment for me because we got like 900
demo requests again there's like two or
three of us on the sales team and that
was the moment that I'm like okay
there's a market here we can find it we
can do this and those were two of the
scrappier things you just have to find
those opportunities though because it
doesn't exist in just plugging in money
in Google or LinkedIn sem like it
doesn't work like that if you're trying
to be if you're trying to find out size
Leverage
I love it um really great examples and
so many ideas are going through my head
and things that we did as well I'll
reference one of them but I think that
the primary takeaway here is it doesn't
require a huge budget to drive demand
and have an impact on acquiring new
customers in Revenue uh the thing that
came to mind is you were talking about
an event I'll reference one thing that
we did very early on super Scrappy
um uh the the person that was leading I
think maybe even leading support at the
time her name was Larissa or is Larissa
um and Larissa did this campaign where
we got a handful of taskrabbits and we
would go to the different conferences
and right outside the conferences would
be public streets and we would put
taskrabbits on the public streets
handing out breakfast burritos like
breakfast burritos we call them
breakfast on rex or breakfast burritos
or something like that and these
breakfast burritos were like three bucks
each and we'd wrap them in uh brex
wrapping paper and then use like a brick
sticker and we would just be right
outside the conference but on a public
street so it wasn't like even you know
part of the conference sponsorship or
anything like that and we would pass out
like a thousand of these things and
everybody would sort of be talking about
it we'd have people running up to us
like we heard brexit is giving out
burritos and so you know at a thousand
burritos times three bucks eats this is
like a three thousand dollar uh campaign
to have like a really meaningful impact
and at least on the brand side if it's
your target market so many people
talking about you and knowing who your
brand is but again I think reiterating
um the the sort of fact that you don't
need to spend tens if not hundreds of
thousands of dollars to have a
meaningful impact on uh driving brand
recognition or demand for the product
amen yeah couldn't agree more well
Sterling we're bumping up on time this
has been a blast thank you so much for
joining uh everyone it's Astra thank you
for tuning in we'll have uh more
exciting podcasts and guests in the
future but Sterling this has been as I
said just a total blast and I really
appreciate your time yeah thanks Sam
appreciate it all right take care
[Music]